Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to reintroduce iRace.
All right, so a race starting from the 2015 or ESX, we call him a literal they are collections of
data that data could be songs, posts, comments, numbers, levels of game or anything that you can
think of.
OK, so we are going to go over the syntax of an array and how we can create arrays, OK, and what
kind of data and array can have inside of it.
So in order to create an array, we have to first specify a variable.
We can create arrays using the left keyword, the Aulet variable, and we can also create create arrays
using the const constant variable.
Right.
So the first array that I want to create is going to have a name of numbers.
So now this is the name of our array.
OK, we can access our array of numbers by the name of numbers.
OK, then we open our brackets and inside this brackets is the realm of arrays in JavaScript.
So I'm just going to put in one and we should separate the items or the values by comma.
OK, now this idea of separating values by comma is the same as in JavaScript objects.
OK, now arrays are our very first chapter in this chapter is going to be our very first chapter that
we talk about, JavaScript data structures.
OK, so one of the JavaScript data structures is arrays and the other is objects.
All right.
So in this chapter and in the next chapter, we are going to cover both of the JavaScript data structures.
So let's go ahead and write two separated by a comma and then three, then separated by a comma, then
for separated by a comma, then five.
OK, now let's go ahead and let's cancel it to this logic, to the console numbers.
Now, this numbers is not a string.
This is a valid JavaScript identifier.
It is the name of this this array when we say it and when we take a look inside our console, we can
see that we have our brackets and we have one, two, three, four and five here.
And when we expand it.
So this part is familiar to you.
This is the index.
So the index of the first item is zero.
The second item has an index of one.
The third item has an index of two.
The fourth one has an index of three, and the fifth item has an index of four.
And the length of this array is five.
So the length is always going to be one more than the index.
The final index or the final index is one less than the length of that array.
And in here it says a rate.
Right.
So this is our our array.
And if we click here, these are all the methods that we can apply on our arrays.
All right.
Now, we have talked about methods before.
They are basically functions that that can be called upon objects.
And in here, you guys can see it says object.
Now, a common misconception is that arrays are objects.
Arrays are not objects.
They behave like objects, like strings.
They can behave like objects.
That's why we can borrow object methods for arrays as well.
And they are not called object methods.
They are called array methods because they are called upon arrays and our act as objects.
That's why we can't call methods upon arrays.
All right.
So this is how we can create an array here.
I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to create another array as well.
And I'm going to call it Let Koller's.
So this array is going to be a combination of colors.
And in here we are going to have strings.
So strings should be provided inside quotes.
So the first one is red, the second one is green.
All right, and the third one is going to be blue.
We can go ahead and consider log our array of colors as well.
And we are going to see that we have the length is three and the final index is going to be two, we
have red, green and blue.
Right.
So this is where now keep in mind that when you whenever you create a write the values, the type,
the data types, they they can be different.
OK, you can go ahead and mix data types in arrays.
So I'm just going to go ahead.
I'm going to create a mixed array.
And in here we are going to provide a string of yellow.
Right.
And I'm going to provide a number, which is a different data type, and I'm going to provide a no,
OK, it has a different type.
We have undefined and we have not a number.
And we can also provide a boolean right now.
All of them, they are actually primitive data types, but they're actually their type is different.
This is a string.
This is a no, this is no.
This is undefined.
This is not a number.
And this is true.
And if I go ahead and if I log it to the console.
Mixed, let's save it, we can see that we have we have yellow, we have 45 now, undefined no no number
and true.
All right, the length is six, but the final index is five.
So we can combine different data as well.
We can combine numbers with strings with but like with boolean expressions.
Right.
So in here, what I want to do is I want to show you a way that you can go ahead and you can access
different items, different values of a an array based on their index.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to comment about this and I'm going
to add in here a comment that says accessing accessing a specific value of an index.
Right.
So in here, in the array of colors, let's say you want to access the index of one and we want to see
what what is going to be that value that is associated with the index of one.
So first off, you just go ahead and reference the array and then we open our brackets again and we
provided with one.
And in here you guys can see we have green.
We can do it one more time and let's put it to two.
We are going to get our blue.
We can go ahead and we can go to our mix and we can check for what is what is the value that is associated
with the index of two.
So if I go ahead and if I am coming this two again, the console log of colors and the mixed array,
we can see that if we expand this, the let's go ahead and comment out these two as well.
So in colors, what is the value that is associated with the index of one?
So if we come to the index of one, the value associated with that is green.
That's why we get green here.
And if I comment in this one as well.
So what is the value which is associated with the index of two?
That should be our blue.
So this is the index of two.
This is index of two.
And the value associated with that is actually blue, right?
And in the mixed area, what is the value which is associated with the index stuff, with the with the
index of two?
It is not.
So let's take a look at it.
So this is index of two.
The value is not.
All right.
We can change these values as well.
So let's go ahead and comment this one out.
And I'm going to leave the I'm going to come this one in as well.
I'm going to leave all three of them here.
So first off, we have to access it.
So we go into our numbers array.
All right.
And we grab any any value that is associated with the with the index of four.
And we change it to 25.
Let's save it and let's go ahead and let's consult the log that array.
OK, I'm just going to copy it from from here.
This is the numbers array.
And let's face it, and let's say now you guys can see that in our original array has not been changed.
Our original array is one, two, three, five, four and five.
But this array has been changed here because we have grabbed the index four and this five has an index
of four and we have changed it to 25.
We can do this as well.
And the final thing that I want to talk about here is that we can add an item to the end of an array
as well.
So I'm here.
I'm just going to go ahead and come into changing.
Changing the array values, right, and in here, I'm going to add a comment adding to the the end of
an array.
OK, so for that one I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the mixed array and when we grab the mixture,
we say the mixed array, that length, what do we want to add at the end of it?
We want to add at the end of it gaming.
Right.
And now let's go ahead and let's consider Sloggett.
Let's save it.
And then you guys can see in here, I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to expand this.
I'm going to increase the width of this window a bit more.
So in here.
You guys can see that from line number 16, which is right here, we have yellow 41, 45 now, undefined,
not a number and true.
But in here from line twenty nine, which is exactly this line we have gaming added a string of gaming
added to the end of our array.
All right.
So that it for the introduction of a race.
From the next lecture onwards, we are going to talk about some methods that we can apply on the race.
So see you guys in the next lecture.